We're gonna plant a fish?
I don't know about this, Kyle.
Dude, the object is to win the
fishing tournament, isn't it?
Some guys stuff lead weights
down the fish's throat.
Me, I'm a purist.
Yeah, I'm talking
about the morality part.
We're evening out the odds.
That's very moral.
So...
let's figure out
where we're gonna put this guy.
All right.
The boat slip's right here.
We'll put him way out
in the lake
so we'll be in the middle of the
tournament by the time he thaws.
And then bingo.
We come back
with an eight-and-a-half pounder
and take home gold.
What is that?
That's probably a bag
of morality.
You got to go see
what that is.
Some jackass had
the same idea we did.
(panting)
(gasps)
What? Is it big?
Yeah, but I don't think
it'll win the tournament.
Yeah.
BRENNAN: That's your  third cup of coffee.
I like the coffee here.
One more reason why you're more
likely to die before I do.
Whoa, whoa.
Wait a second. Okay.
Let's just start...
Take a step back, all right?
What are you talking about?
You imbibe a higher level
of carcinogenic fluids,
you've had a brain tumor,
you're older than I am,
and you're a man.
Therefore,
the insurance company is wrong.
Wrong about what?
They want to charge
more for my life insurance
than yours,
even though
I will clearly outlive you.
Okay, I'm glad you have a plan
to outlive me.
I'm just being practical.
I'm sure they're being
practical, too;
this is what they do.
They've come
to the misguided
conclusion that it is
more dangerous for me
to spend time in the field
than for you.
Without examining the evidence.
Well, they-they kind of have.
You see, I'm trained
in the danger business.
You're, you know...
you're top dog...
(howls) in the lab.
I'm licensed to carry a weapon,
I know martial arts...
You shot me once.
A ricochet. That doesn't count.
I'm sure it counts to them, okay?
Oh, so you agree with them
and think that I should be penalized.
You know what, I'm not
gonna win this discussion.
I mean, I just keep digging a...
hole that's getting deeper and deep...
(phone ringing)
Oh, look at that.
There is a God.
Saved by a phone call. Booth.
Yeah. Okay.
Great. On our way.
Decomposed body in the lake.
Let's go.
I'm not done with this, Booth.
Look, this is not
my fault, okay?
I don't speak
for the life insurance company.
I didn't just shoot you, Booth.
I saved your life, too.
All right, look, if this
is so important to you,
why don't you look for another
insurance company, you know?
Shop around for better rates.
I will.
Yeah. There you go. Good idea.
All right, what's going on here
at the dock of the bay?
Whoa.
A waterlogged corpse.
How long has it been in there?
Based on decomped
flesh underwater,
I'd say it's
been in the bag
approximately four days.
There's got to be
some goodies in there
that'll give us
a more precise time.
Well, until you find
them, four days.
Sharp supraorbital
margin, lack of
prominence of the glabella
indicate that
the victim is female.
BOOTH: See, I could've looked at
that for hours and never
have figured that out,
all right.
All you need is
a little piece of bone
and a beautiful
brain. Me?
I just need a gun.
Don't patronize me, Booth.
Am I missing something?
No.
The insurance company believes
that I am more
at risk than he is
when we're in the field.
And Booth agrees with them.
Really? It's none of their concern.
That doesn't seem right.
See?
You see what you started now?
They're just looking
at numbers. I mean,
Booth has more training
and experience.
Right. Exactly. S...
Did you hear what he said here?
Mr. Bug Boy said they're just
looking at numbers.
I thought you didn't want to involve them.
SAROYAN: Glad you asked now?
Someday I'll learn.
There's clearly trauma
to the bones,
but I need them cleaned
to determine cause.
Hey, uh, if someone was
trying to hide this,
wouldn't they
weigh down the bag?
BOOTH: There's a tournament
scheduled for today.
Well, all the more reason
to go deep.
No, not if the killer wanted us
to find the body.
Wow.
Oh, be careful.
Good. Bag on a gurney.
HODGINS: Careful, guys.
I need this water.
Ooh, and that! OTHERS: Oh!
Hey! Grab it! Get it,
get it, get it!
Get it, get it,
get it! That thing.
Geez!
Okay, do not let that go, Booth.
That is evidence.
Do not let it go, okay?
What is that?
It's a lamprey. It will not bite.
Lamprey.
Okay.
Unless, of course, you let
the mouth near your skin.
Well, it's on my skin. Get it off my skin.
Come on, come on. I need it in here.
BRENNAN: I'd help,
but apparently I'm not
as qualified as you
in field work.
Booth!
And now I got slime stuff on me.
♪ Bones 9x16 ♪
The Source in the Sludge
Original Air Date on March 10, 2014
♪ Main Title Theme ♪ The Crystal Method
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
♪
BRENNAN: Almost complete
ossification of
the cranial sutures indicates
that the victim
was in her late 20s.
The skull's in good shape.
Angela's reconstruction
should be pretty simple.
The victim is Caucasian.
I do not concur.
Really?
Racial identification
is basic stuff. What did I miss?
The sharp nasal sill
and the angle
of the anterior
nasal spine
indicates the victim
was Caucasian.
Uh, that's what Ms. Wick said.
The issue is her
projecting zygomatics
and the wide interorbital space.
Asian?
There's no single ethnicity
because the victim is
from a polyethnic crossroads.
Somewhere along the ancient
trade routes that ran between
Northern Asia and the Caucasus.
I'm sorry. I'm just tired.
I've been studying for my orals.
I thought you already took them.
They were rescheduled.
I would place victim's
ethnic origins in the Stans--
Waziristan,
Kyrgyzstan,
Afghanistan.
Better.
The skin is in pieces.
(groans)
Hodgins' lampreys
did some good work on this.
Who would throw lampreys
in with a body?
I'm not supposed
to know that, am I?
What am I supposed to do, okay?
Bones is all upset.
Am I supposed to start my own
life insurance company?
Dr. Brennan's always
seen herself as someone
who's capable of doing anything
if she puts her mind
to it. Now this...
empirical assessment's telling her she's
not as exceptional as she thought.
That's not an answer.
How do I fix this?
Start your own
insurance company.
Sometimes you can be
really useless.
Are you gonna be helpful
at all in this case?
I know you're frustrated, so I'm
not gonna take that personally.
Based on the crime scene,
I don't think
this is the work
of a sexual predator.
They typically like to leave
a bit of a calling card behind.
What about the eels?
Okay, those are very phallic,
obviously.
But it's atypical.
I think they're symbolic
of something else.
All right. What?
I don't know yet.
But we're looking for
someone who is obviously trying
to send a message.
You wanted to see me, Ms. Wick?
Yes, Dr. Brennan.
I completed
a preliminary examination
of the victim's
entire skeleton,
and I found a remodeled fracture
on the left humerus.
Do you have the X-rays? I'd like to see...
I do indeed.
It appears the victim
suffered a severe break
approximately two years ago.
Three.
Of course.
Did you also note
that it appears a pin
was inserted to help the
fracture set properly?
I should have seen that.
That is correct.
You should have.
We need to look
at the humerus more closely.
(whirring, beeping)
Angela should be able
to identify the victim
from this serial number.
Can you extract it
and take it to her?
I hope so.
Are you sure there isn't something
on your mind, Ms. Wick?
No.
No, no.
Apparently nothing
in this mind at all.
HODGINS: Did you know
these guys haven't evolved
in 360 million years?
Sounds like they could run
for Congress.
Look at them, just
doing what they do best.
Relaxing and watching
life go by.
And this is helping how?
Well, the lampreys were
feeding on the corpse,
which means they've ingested
all sorts of useful stuff.
So I am waiting
for them to make.
"Make"?
Oh, sorry. That's what
we call it with Michael Vincent.
Although, unlike him,
their digestive tract
goes directly
from mouth to anus.
I'm sure that's not
the only difference.
Why don't you
just cut them open?
After 360 million years, I think
they deserve a bit more respect
than that.
Ooh, look at that.
I think he's making.
Uh, excreting.
Don't you want to see this?
Nope.
This is evidence.
Bye-bye!
Oh, Cam,
the pin that Dr. Brennan found
in the victim's humerus
was part of a shipment
of medical devices
that was sent
to Afghanistan.
Dr. Brennan said
the victim came from
that part of the world.
And Daisy was right
about the Stans.
The victim was originally
from Afghanistan.
Her name was Sari Nazeri.
Poor thing.
She was only 28.
MONTENEGRO:
She immigrated to the U.S.
a year ago with
her brother.
She was a teacher's
aide, and he did
odd jobs--
landscaping and carpentry.
They were granted
political asylum.
Well, she deserved it.
She helped
American forces
locate terrorists
and made some videos
about her experience.
Did I know that
my actions would mean
I could never
go back to my home?
No.
But I don't regret anything.
Here, I can tell
the world the truth.
Here, I can work
to make sure any girl
can get access to education
without fear of retribution.
Here, I can...
speak about the freedom
that can bring light
to a part of the world that
has been dark for too long.
No sacrifice is too great
to make that happen.
And we couldn't even
keep her safe.
(knocking)
FBI. Special Agent
Seeley Booth.
This here is my partner,
Dr. Temperance Brennan.
Are you, uh,
Aziz Nazeri?
Is this about Sari?
Yes.
(speaks Pashto)
MAN: It's okay, Aziz.
Let them in.
Danny?
Hey, Seeley.
Can't say I'm
happy to see you.
Wait, y-you know them?
Yes. They're
with the FBI.
What are you
doing here?
Long story.
But you can only be here
for one reason, so...
do what you
came to do.
Will they help
find my sister?
Unfortunately,
we have.
I don't understand.
BRENNAN:
Your sister is dead,
Mr. Nazeri.
We're very sorry.
How could this happen?
Huh?
How could you let
this happen?
How could you
let this happen?
Maybe it's time you tell us
about that long story, Danny.
When Aziz came home last Friday,
Sari was gone.
I tried to call, but her
cell phone was disconnected.
Why didn't you file
a missing persons report?
It's sensitive.
It's murder.
There's always more
when the CIA's involved, so...
you want to tell me that
long story now, Danny?
Hey, you were
supposed to protect us.
Hey, I'm gonna get to the bottom
of this, Aziz, I promise.
BRENNAN:
The CIA isn't empowered
to investigate crimes
on U.S. soil.
This is Booth's jurisdiction.
Thank you, Bones.
So, Mr. Nazeri,
did Sari have any
problems around here?
Did anybody come around
and threaten her recently?
She was an asset, Seeley.
You know how this works.
It was Ibrahim.
Ibrahim is dead, Aziz.
Okay, somebody want to fill me in here?
Who's Ibrahim?
Look, this has to stay quiet.
Ibrahim Sajadi. An engineer.
He made bombs for al-Qaeda.
He was a CIA target
in Afghanistan.
It was your job to kill him?
That's what you do, isn't it?
Ibrahim was a high value target.
We knew he was in Ghazni,
but we didn't have
operatives on the ground.
Sari identified where he
lived-- they were from
the same village.
She was working for you over there?
I recruited her, yes.
She planted the transponder
in his house
for the drone strike;
she was incredibly brave.
She got injured
by the explosion.
AZIZ: Yeah, too brave.
And too stupid to trust you.
Now she's dead.
Hey, I took care of her
when she was hurt, Aziz.
I got you both
out of the country.
I did everything I promised.
No, you promised us a good life!
BOOTH: Look, you can't hold
anything back, Danny, okay?
This is my jurisdiction,
it's my case.
Hey, we put a lot
of time into this.
There are people above me,
we have operatives...
Yeah, but it's not gonna
work like that here, James Bond,
because I'm representing
the Justice Department
to make sure you obey the law.
So, Booth is your boss
on this case,
or we tell the world
you got your recruit killed.
Now, why don't
we all play
truth or dare
and move this thing along.
Truth. Sounds
good to me.
Don't waste your time on Ibrahim;
it couldn't be him. I'll prove it.
SWEETS: I don't know,
the serpents, the, uh,
duffel bag, the
public disposals.
Those all appear to be
Ibrahim signatures, right?
I mean, that's exactly
how we found Sari.
He really works with serpents?
Yeah, in every killing
attributed to him.
To Ibrahim,
they're unclean, reviled.
That's one thing
he and I agree on.
They're a way
to degrade his victims.
All right, so you're thinking
that Ibrahim killed Sari?
I'm telling you,
we killed Ibrahim in
that drone strike.
See for yourself.
You sure he was in there?
Yeah.
CAROLINE:
Then that is one
toasted terrorist, cherie.
BOOTH:
Yeah, I don't know.
You know, I've seen guys
like Ibrahim reported dead
four or five
times like this.
Every time you
send out a drone,
you have to report a kill
in order to cover yourselves.
Sari was there. She saw
Ibrahim go into the house.
But didn't you say she was
injured in that blast?
Look, Danny, I know
you don't want to face it,
all right?
Sari and Aziz
put their faith in you.
But you have to know
that it's possible
that Ibrahim is still alive.
Yeah. I mean, it's consistent
with Ibrahim's profile
that he'd want to exact
revenge on Sari, isn't it?
(sighs)
If Ibrahim's alive...
he wouldn't let
anyone else do the job.
These recent contusions
are on the ribs, zygomatic,
maxilla and mandible.
Not cause of death, but it
clearly indicates a struggle.
You found
no fracturing at all?
No evidence of a weapon?
No.
And no evidence of a blow
capable of killing her.
And I was thorough, I swear.
SAROYAN:
The victim was dragged,
violently.
Is this the medial collateral ligament?
Yes.
And it was ruptured, indicating
that the victim was dragged.
Do you concur,
Ms. Wick?
It appears the victim
was indeed dragged,
with enough force to dislocate
the femur from the tibia.
Dr. Saroyan was correct.
Thank you for that.
BRENNAN:
While interesting,
this puts us no closer
to cause of death
or to evidence linking us
to a killer.
When put that way,
it's very bleak.
MONTENEGRO:
Hey, I've got something
I need you to see.
Did Caroline give you
all the information
you needed on Ibrahim?
Yeah, I hope so.
I mean, it's
always possible
the CIA is holding
something back.
I sound
like Hodgins, huh?
In this case, that
would be prudent.
So far, I've run travel
records, bank accounts
airport facial recognition
records, but I couldn't find
anything that
links to Ibrahim
or any of his known aliases.
He could have
used a disguise
or another alias.
Exactly.
And since there
are any number of ways
to sneak into the country,
like merchant ships
and cargo holds...
So we have nothing
but more questions.
The Army had Ibrahim
in custody
for six months in Afghanistan.
I went through service records,
and I found the guy
who guarded him.
BRENNAN:
"Derek Johannessen."
He was the guard on duty
when the prison was bombed.
Ibrahim escaped
with 18 other terrorists.
In his statement,
he said that he was convinced
that Ibrahim would
find a way to America
to avenge his people.
You were in the service,
Mr. Johannessen?
Corporal, yeah. Tried to re-up,
couldn't pass the physical.
Right. And you were
a prison guard in Sangar, right?
One of your prisoners
was Ibrahim Sajadi?
See, that wasn't my fault.
They always want a scapegoat,
but what the hell could I do?
Someone drove up a van
and blew a hole in the wall.
All right, look, no one's
blaming you for anything.
We're just trying to figure out
what you know about Ibrahim,
that's all.
You guys didn't take him out.
He's not dead, is he?
Not definitively.
Oh, man.
You do not want Ibrahim here.
We need you to tell us everything
you can remember about him.
Who he talked to, any contacts
who might still be active.
The guy was in isolation.
I'm the only one he talked to.
About what?
Food, water, towels,
cockroaches.
What do you think,
we were buddies?
BOOTH:
Well, did he mention
any contacts here? Any threats?
I'll think.
I'll do whatever I can, but
that bomb scrambled me a little,
you know what I'm saying?
We've all taken hits.
The memories are
in there somewhere.
Just do what you can.
What I do know,
the other prisoners
called Ibrahim "the chameleon."
He could blend in anywhere.
Which is the last thing you want
in a terrorist.
I ran every tox screen
I can think of,
gone over every inch of
remaining arterial tissue
for incisions, and found nothing
that points to cause of death.
I found some
interesting striations
on the left styloid process,
talus and medial malleolus.
There are two layers
of striations--
one has partially remodeled
and the other hasn't.
Which suggests
the victim struggled
to loosen her ligatures,
but was rebound.
Indicating that
she tried to escape.
Do you feel that I'm a strong,
competent woman
who's more than capable
of defending herself?
This is not about the case,
is it?
It has to do with the inequity
of my life insurance premium.
Right.
Well, a fascinating
political issue.
I don't think I'm
really qualified.
Of course you are.
I was hoping
that after I compiled
the necessary actuarial data
to challenge the company,
you would give
a detailed analysis
of my considerable skills.
Under oath.
Oh! Oath!
Well... I am flattered,
of course.
But may-maybe we should focus
on the case first?
I didn't see any mention
of striations
in Ms. Wick's
preliminary report.
Ms. Wick overlooked them,
as she did much else
in this case.
Remodeling suggests that Sari
was bound for several days
with no additional injuries.
Why would Ibrahim hold her
captive for so long
if his goal was to display
his kill in such a public way?
Don't you think you've gotten
as much information
as you're gonna get
from these guys?
Are you kidding?
Once these guys start to poop...
Okay, okay,
I get the picture,
unfortunately.
You know, I used
to think that
this eel obsession
was weird, but...
now I actually find
it kind of endearing.
You do?
Yeah. I get it.
Yeah, because they're
the sister taxon
of all living jawed vertebrates,
right? So...
No, no, no, sweetie.
I mean, in the last year,
you've lost your fortune
and you found out
you had a brother
who then turned out
to be mentally ill.
You've had all these
major life changes happen,
and you've never once complained
or fallen apart or felt sorry
for yourself.
You just...
you took it in stride.
I don't understand.
I mean, not many people could
deal with what you have.
And then there are these
360-million-year-old creatures
who have stayed the course,
just like you,
no matter what evolution
threw at them.
It just makes sense
that you take a shine to them.
They are pretty special, huh?
Like you.
Hey, look at this.
You're gonna ruin
this moment with poop?
No, it's just that
there's something in it.
Looks like fiber.
Piece of twine?
Jute-- it is twine.
Yeah, what she
was bound with.
Well, there seems to be traces
of blood and tissue in the weave
I can give to Cam
and what looks like
pollen from Ipomoea purpurea.
That's a morning glory.
Sari Nazeri's brother
is a landscaper.
Thanks for making
time for me, Lance.
Of course.
I'm always happy
to make time for you.
But, uh, you know,
if this is about
us getting back
together...
What?! No.
I just missed you, as a friend.
Although I do miss
the sex sometimes.
Just for the record.
What is it?
I mean, you're clearly upset
about something.
I took my orals
for my doctorate.
I thought you said
that those were postponed.
I lied.
I went and I failed.
Ah.
I'm a failure.
And a liar.
Which, interestingly,
doesn't concern me as much
as the failure part right now.
Right. You know what?
It's all right.
Everybody stumbles.
You just have to accept it,
move forward, try again, right?
But my work has
been terrible.
I've been overlooking
really obvious things.
And Dr. Brennan is gonna
fire me, I know it.
Just tell Dr. Brennan
what happened.
I'm sure she'll understand
what you're going through.
Are we talking about the
same Dr. Brennan, Lance?
The one who
demands perfection?
You want me to tell that
Dr. Brennan that I'm a failure?
Trust me. She'll understand.
I really have missed you, Lance.
And the sex.
Just talk to Dr. Brennan,
all right?
Not... not about the sex.
No?
God, no.
So, the squints
found a piece of twine
we might be able to link
to Sari's brother.
Her brother?
Yeah.
Nah, they were
close, Seeley.
I can't see him
killing her.
So, you never
saw them fight?
Okay, you never
saw him do that whole
women-are-less-than-men thing?
You're talking about a
cultural bias that doesn't fit.
They emigrated to
the U.S. voluntarily.
They begged to come.
So they were perfect.
(sighs)
Look, we got off
on the wrong foot, I get that.
But we've known each other
for a long time.
Look, you can't protect
your assets and your agency,
while we're laying all the facts
on the table.
Okay, sure,
they fought sometimes,
but like brothers
and sisters do.
It's hard adjusting
to a new life.
You've seen that
in witness protection cases.
It's worse moving
to another country.
But he loved her, Seeley.
(elevator bell dings)
Bones, what are you doing here?
I checked the ligature marks
on Sari's bones,
and the jute gardening twine
is a match.
Also, Cam confirmed that it was
Sari's tissue in the weave.
Yeah, she called.
Also, Angela checked
Aziz Nazeri's
credit card receipts;
he bought a disposable
cell phone from Appomattox
Appliances three weeks ago.
He already had a cell phone.
I have the number.
Aziz made minimum wage.
If he was buying another phone,
that means
he was hiding something.
Are you sure that you guys
know nothing about this?
Are we doing this again?
No. Sari was my asset, not Aziz.
BRENNAN:
Angela got the make
and serial number of the phone
so she could trace the calls
using Aziz's location.
He called a number
in Helsinki
that reroutes transmissions
to Afghanistan
to the town of Ghazni.
BECK: Man.
He didn't want his calls traced.
When was the last call made?
Two days before Sari was killed,
and then nothing.
It's Jamaal Ahmad.
What?
BECK: He's one of
Ibrahim's guys.
The agency's been tracking him.
He's in Ghazni.
And you were gonna
tell me this when?
I didn't think it was relevant.
I told you now, didn't I?
Fine. Let's go get Aziz.
I'm coming with you.
Uh, I don't think that's a good idea.
I'm Booth's partner,
and I wasn't talking to you.
I think maybe you
should stay back.
It could be a
little dangerous.
Three well-trained people
questioning one man?
Am I the only one
who isn't afraid?
Sounds like you work
for the insurance company.
Are you coming?
Yeah.
Right.
How can you possibly think I had
any connection to Ibrahim?!
He murdered my sister!
We know you bought a
phone to call Ghazni.
Who were calling,
huh? Jamaal Ahmad?
You were on Ibrahim's
death list, Aziz.
Why are you calling
his number two guy?
Whoa, whoa!
Oh, Bones!
Nice hit! Good hit there, Bones.
Geez!
All right, let's go.
Talk. Come on!
I wanted to go home.
And Jamaal Ahmad was
the only one who could
make that happen.
He could talk to Ibrahim
and make peace for me.
BECK:
I got you and Sari
out of there; you said
you wanted to go.
No. I said I had to go,
because of what Sari did.
I never wanted to go.
In Afghanistan,
I was respected.
Here, I cut the lawn
for rich people.
BOOTH: No, they would
never let you
back in, you got to know that.
BRENNAN: They might.
Sari became a traitor when she
started working with the CIA.
If he killed her, Aziz would
prove his loyalty to Ibrahim.
No. I wanted
to take her home.
That's where our life was.
Sari couldn't go back.
You always told us
everything was possible.
But she didn't want to go back.
She was clear on that.
You always thought
you knew her so well, huh?
Well, did you know,
in the past month,
she would leave
the house at night?
Sometimes be gone
until morning?
This is America, Aziz.
Women are free to live
the life they want.
You had no idea she was
disappearing at night?
She's really not helping,
Seeley.
No, she kind of is,
all right?
A source, what,
changes her behavior?
And what do you do?
You just, what, brush it off?
Is that how you were trained?
AZIZ: Yeah, I told you she was
acting strange,
but you did nothing.
You had no idea
where she was going
on those nights she disappeared?
No idea.
Are you sure about that?
Who are we questioning here?
I don't know.
Danny knows something
about Sari's murder,
and he's not telling us.
Maybe he can't.
It could be classified, right?
Wouldn't matter.
Booth's security clearance
is pretty damn high.
You know, I'm sick and tired of
this guy keeping stuff from me.
I'm bringing him in
for impeding an investigation.
Hey, hey,
reign it in, cowboy.
You do not want
to start a turf war
between the CIA and
FBI, mostly because
I'd be caught
in the middle of it.
SWEETS: His defensiveness
could be explained by
the guilt he feels for failing
to protect his source.
Are you really thinking
he killed her?
It could explain a lot.
Why would he want to kill the
woman whose life he saved?
You know what?
Things happen in a war.
Okay, you end up doing stuff
that could destroy you
if it came out.
Do you think
she was blackmailing him?
To get a better deal or to get
a better job for her brother.
I've seen it before.
CAROLINE: You may be right,
cher, but for the sake
of your career and mine,
you can't arrest Danny
on a hunch.
The CIA guy?
Aren't they trained to kill
so that no one
will ever find out?
Those killings
aren't solved
because those investigations
don't wind up with us.
"Us"?
We're "us"?
I'm still making up my mind.
We're looking
for something
that is meant to
be overlooked.
Dr. Brennan, I know you've had
issues with my performance.
And I'd like to clear things up.
The best way to clear it up is
to impress me with your work.
I failed my orals.
Oh.
And that has affected
your work here?
I knew everything,
and then the second that they
started asking me questions,
I felt dizzy, and everything
I knew just vanished.
I almost fainted.
You experienced
a vasovagal reaction
brought on by extreme stress.
It's not an
uncommon response.
But it's humiliating.
Oh.
(chuckles):
It's definitely humiliating.
Lance said you'd be
more understanding.
I understood
that you humiliated yourself.
And I understand
that it's meaningless.
When I failed my orals,
I continued to excel
at my internship.
You failed your orals, too?
I felt the board was not
competent enough to judge me--
a fact that I communicated
to them.
They didn't appreciate
my honesty.
No matter.
Orals are an antiquated
useless tradition
meant to make
professors feel superior.
If I were an insurance company,
I would give you
a policy for free.
I've run the actuarials.
That would be
fiscally irresponsible.
Dr. Brennan, I feel something.
There's a contusion on
the anterior third sternal rib.
I observed it earlier.
But there's something
inside the contusion.
You're right.
It's a microscopic
V-shaped nick.
Very good, Ms. Wick.
Well, you always say
to feel the bones.
Something those twits
who give the orals
wouldn't know, right?
Unless you get me.
Right.
I'll give that
to Dr. Hodgins to swab.
Then to Angela;
she can scan the nick
to see if she can recreate
a potential weapon.
Ms. Wick?
Good work.
(computer beeping)
Hey, Angie. How's it going?
Well, I matched the nick
on the bone with the angle
of the blade
that caused the incision.
And there's potentially
five other knives
that the killer
could've used.
All right, well,
this might help.
So, the swab from the nick
showed particulates
of high-carbon 440B steel
and traces of Kydex.
It's probably from the sheath.
Hey, that's a specialty steel,
used only for very high-end
tactical knives.
Okay, the knife was made
by Higginson in El Paso.
Looks like it was
a custom run.
They only made
800 of them.
For Special Forces.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
BOOTH:
Danny?
Give me your gun.
What the hell's this about?
Knife?
What knife?
The Higginson, the one you and I
were both given
back at Special Forces.
I don't know. I lost it
in a move.
You lost it in a move?
Really? We know it was the knife
that stabbed Sari.
What?
Hey, you are way
over the line here, Booth.
You think I killed Sari?
Right now,
you're my best suspect, pal.
I gave Sari the knife
to protect herself.
You gave her a knife?
She didn't like guns.
Look, she must've tried to use
the knife on Ibrahim
when he took her,
and he turned it
on Sari instead.
That knife was
a part of you.
You told me it was
what kept you alive in Mosul.
Now, you would
never give that up.
(sighs)
I gave her the knife
because it was a part of me.
She was...
Doesn't matter.
You were sleeping
with the source.
Hey, I loved
her, Seeley.
Look, I know it was wrong. I...
It just happened.
What happened
to working together, huh?
Telling me everything?
Look, you're right.
I should've.
But if the Agency finds out,
I'm done!
You know that.
Look, I just
figured we'd find
who killed her, and
whatever happened
between Sari and me
would stay between Sari and me.
Why should I believe you now?
Because I just came
from a briefing.
We're getting intel
that Ibrahim really is here.
And Sari was
just a warning shot.
It might be Danny Beck's knife
and you might be able
to get an attempted
murder charge,
but the wound
was superficial.
The knife didn't
penetrate deeply enough
to sever any arteries.
So, you still don't know
how that poor girl was killed?
Nope.
I do have an idea though.
You know, we have
a nice lounge
upstairs that might be
more comfortable for you.
Yeah, but
then I'd be depriving you
of my talent to backseat drive.
And we wouldn't want that.
So all we know
for sure is
she was stabbed
a little and tied up.
That's about right.
But what I don't understand
is why leave her
tied up for so long?
I just nudge, cherie.
You're the one
who gets the answers.
Oh! That's an eyeball! Please!
I repeat:
coffee and donuts in the lounge.
As if I could eat now.
I'm using
vitreous fluid
to run a test for potassium
that could give us
environmental data,
like the location
where she was kept,
the type of enclosure.
(device beeps)
Oh, my God.
Now, that sounds good.
I have cause
of death.
She was left to die.
That was her torture.
She died of dehydration.
So you're saying
that Danny tied her up
and left her to die
of dehydration?
Wow, that's even
cold for the CIA.
I'm not saying that,
cher, you are.
If James Bond wanted
to get rid of her,
he had
a million choices,
none of which carried the risk
of someone stumbling upon her
as she was dying slowly.
Even if he wasn't in love with
her, she was a source, right?
So we would have
found something
to indicate a
personal attachment,
but this murder is
cold and impersonal.
So Danny was right--
it was Ibrahim.
With Ibrahim, it's always
about direct payback--
literally an eye
for an eye--
so even if he didn't die
from that drone strike,
his bodyguards did,
his lieutenant,
and most important,
his family.
So he would have killed Sari
with a bomb.
BOOTH: No, no, no,
not necessarily.
I mean, those houses
are made out of stone.
A lot of times,
when a bomb hits,
you don't die
from the explosion.
I mean, you-you die slowly from
being trapped in the rubble.
No way to get out,
no water.
You'd dehydrate.
SWEETS:
It would take days.
An eye for an eye.
So it was Ibrahim.
Danny said he has
something else planned.
Did you find something,
Ms. Wick?
Yes, I did.
As you'll recall,
the lampreys left
significant abrasion
marks on the clavicles,
the scapula, the mandible
and the maxilla.
Lampreys can often leave marks
that can be misinterpreted
for either...
You're not doing
your orals, Ms. Wick;
just show me what you found.
Can do.
Finally, look
at the mandible.
See this abrasion mark
on the right condyloid process?
You're saying that
it wasn't caused
by the lampreys when they ate
the mandibular muscle.
That's right. It's an
avulsion fracture.
It indicates that
Sari bit her attacker
with exceptional force.
She didn't give up, she
was fighting to live.
Please examine the teeth
and any pockets
in the mandible
where tissue could
still be present.
So that Dr. Saroyan can potentially
find the assailant's DNA?
I've already
done that.
Because in every
investigation,
the proper methods of evidence
collection demand that...
Not my orals. Sorry.
I am so gonna kick ass
next time I take them.
(sighs)
BOOTH:
What do you have, Bones?
There's no remaining
tissue in the teeth.
But I found
aspirated skin fragments
at the bifurcation
of the victim's
primary bronchi.
What is that?
That Sari bit her killer
and inhaled some
particles of his skin.
SAROYAN: We're running it
through the database,
but preliminary
analysis indicates
we're looking for
a Nordic male.
Nordic? Okay, I'm...
I'm no squint,
but even I know
that, uh, Ibrahim
is not Nordic.
And neither is Danny.
Have you
questioned anybody
who is of
Scandinavian extraction?
Johannessen.
According to the military CODEC,
the DNA is a match
to Derek Johannessen.
That's no surprise.
Look at this.
Danny sent over
all the known financial fronts
for terrorist organizations
working out of Ghazni.
SAROYAN: All of this money
is Johannessen's?
MONTENEGRO:
Yeah, he used aliases
and offshore
bank accounts,
shell companies,
but yeah,
all of the money
came to him.
And it came from
Ibrahim's network.
BOOTH:
So they paid
Johannessen
to kill Sari
to make the world think
that Ibrahim was still alive?
Yeah.
And the chatter
the CIA picked up about
the impending U.S. attack
was also traced
back to Johannessen.
So Ibrahim must have died
in that drone strike.
Had to.
Hey, uh, listen, Booth.
Yeah?
I want you to know,
I should've come clean,
about everything.
And what you did...
I'd have thrown me
in jail just like you.
(sighs)
Look, did you love her?
Yeah.
I could never
lie about that.
I'm sorry you lost her.
So Johannessen must've
been recruited by Ibrahim
when he was a guard.
That son of a bitch
has no morals at all.
You and your team
did an amazing job.
Better than my guys.
Of course.
My job is clearly done,
so why am I still here?
BOOTH: Why?
Because you're my partner
and we close cases together,
and that's never gonna change,
that's why.
And I don't
care what any
insurance company
has to say.
Now, don't shoot
the messenger, cher.
No.
Yeah.
What?
The powers that be
have decided that if Johannessen
gives us
Ibrahim's network,
he gets his freedom and
ten million dollars
in taxpayer money
to enjoy it with.
No, but he's a murderer!
I... we gave you
all of the evidence that you need.
He can provide
the government with the
entire network over there--
how they finance themselves,
who the operatives are.
And that's a lot more
important to them
than one dead
Afghani woman.
Hey, look,
I can get it out of him.
Sorry, Booth.
I have the order from the DOJ.
Now let me go get this
unfortunate business over with.
This is not gonna stand.
Let it go, Booth.
No, Bones,
I'm not gonna
let it go, okay?
This guy-- he's got to pay.
He's gonna pay.
SARI: I may not know
the names or faces
of all those who are with me,
but I am not alone
in this struggle.
He killed this
beautiful woman.
I can't believe
Johannessen's gonna go free.
So, you see, it doesn't matter
what happens to me.
As long as the fight lives on,
I live on.
Seven million views
in two days?
She can't have
died for nothing.
And why do I think
you had something
to do with that?
Every small girl
who learns to read,
every woman who has
the courage to become
a teacher or a doctor...
they keep the dream alive.
They keep the darkness away.
I don't understand why
people fear an educated woman.
Well, maybe I do.
Because it is clear that
ignorance is no match
for a curious mind.
And hatred and oppression
are no match
for the human heart.
Compassion and love
will guide us,
and freedom will be our reward.
♪ When you're away... ♪
BOOTH: So, the guys
over at the CIA,
they're just throwing a party.
All the information you gave
about Ibrahim's people...
all checked out.
Yeah, well,
of course it did.
Listen, I hope there's
no hard feelings,
Agent Booth, but...
business is business.
And Sari? What?
She was just
collateral damage?
You've been to war; it happens.
Yeah, I chose a side.
I believed in something.
Good for you.
Listen, I got to go...
All right,
just one more thing.
Got a gift for you.
It's a small token
of appreciation
from the government.
JOHANNESSEN:
What's this?
BOOTH: Did a little digging
in your records and found out
that the military is still
paying for your rehab.
Yeah, well, they should.
I took a blast for them.
BECK:
It also means,
according to Article Two
of the Uniform Code
of Military Justice,
you're still subject
to a court-martial.
And since military court is
independent from the DOJ...
BECK: Especially when
it comes to soldiers
making deals with terrorists,
You can finish your rehab
behind bars.
This isn't gonna work, guys.
No, I'm pretty sure it is.
Because you violated
Code section 104 to 118,
which means you'll be charged
with treason and murder.
Those carry the death penalty,
don't they, Seeley?
Business is business, right?
Thanks.
Right.
Just remember next time
who your friends are, okay?
Oh. Ready to go?
Oh. Yes.
Sure.
What is this?
It's a little
something for you.
Go ahead, open it up.
(chuckles)
Scotch?
Not just Scotch.
That's 30-year-old Scotch.
Single malt, too.
Angela would say
that traditionally
a husband buys
his wife flowers.
Yeah, that's true.
But you know what?
This is not for my wife.
This is for my partner,
who I occasionally kiss.
(chuckles)
Johannessen is in custody?
Yep.
Largely because of my partner.
So what's going on here?
What is this?
I revisited the life insurance
company's calculations
about the level of risk
I assume in the field.
I factored in my many
considerable strengths, but...
their numbers
are correct.
Okay, so you're okay with them
slapping a higher
premium on you?
It's rational.
Hmm.
And I can't argue
with rationality.
Right.
The universe demonstrates
that no matter how
we protect ourselves,
we will never be
completely safe.
But... with reasonable caution,
we can still be together
in the field, when appropriate.
And you're willing
to pay extra for that?
Always.
Like I'm willing to pay
extra for the Scotch.
And that's why I love you.
(sighs)
(laughs)
Come on, let's have
a Scotch night. Huh?  (laughs)
Tell me a story.
A Scotch story?
Well, it's got to
be 30 years old...
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org